# Audi  

Corporate Responsibility Report  

  

Update 2013:  

CR program and key figures  

  

# Dear Readers,  

Sustainability is firmly anchored in our self-perception and functions as a basic requirement for our corporate activities. The desire to make all products and processes sustainable across the entire value chain has consequently become a basic requirement for Audi. In 2011, we included sustainability as one of four fields of action in the Strategy 2020 “Audi – the premium brand” under the motto “We live responsibility.”  

We provided full transparency of the goals and activities of AUDI AG and its subsidiaries through our Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 for the first time. This “Update 2013: CR program and key figures” gives an overview of the status and our progress regarding the measures of our CR program. Furthermore, the important key figures demonstrate our sustainability progress we have made in the years between 2011 and 2013 – itemized by our five core themes operations, product, environment, employees and society.  

The next comprehensive Audi Corporate Responsibility Report will be published in the first half of 2015.  

I hope you enjoy reading.  

  

Dr. Peter F. Tropschuh   
Head of Corporate Responsibility   
AUDI AG  

# CR program: our goals and measures  

The Audi CR program links our CR measures with the company’s goals. The degree of completion of each measure relates to the end of the 2013 calendar year. The implementation level as well as the degree of completion of the goals were assured by the auditing firm.  

  
1)The A3 e-tron start of production is scheduled for 2014.  

  
2)The target quote of $30\,\%$ women amongst newly hired academics is strived for every year and consequently an ongoing target. 3)The pilot project will be realized in 2014.  

# Corporate responsibility in figures  

Audi presents its sustainability activities in a transparent, factual manner. The following tables contain an extract of important key figures relating to our five CR core themes. The figures for the years 2011 to 2013 apply to the calendar year and refer to the Audi Group. If key figures refer to individual Audi Group companies only, this is specified accodingly. Figures are rounded up or down, which may result in slight deviations from the totals stated. Key figures of the 2013 calendar year that have been checked by the auditing firm are marked with a   symbol.  

  

  

  

  

  

1)   
2) Since January 1, 2012, including vehicles manufactured in China by the FAW-Volkswagen Automotive Company, Ltd., Changchun, joint venture; 333,465 (216,053) vehicles   
were manufactured by the joint venture in the 2012 fiscal year. The previous year’s figure has been adjusted for ease of comparison.   
3) Since acquisition of the Ducati Group in July 2012.   
4) According to provisional calculations, the average $\mathsf{C O}_{2}$ emissions of new vehicles sold in the European Union (EU 28) in 2013 was around 134 g/km.   
5) With the exception of the item "Audi terminal," refers to the Ingolstadt, Neckarsulm, Brüssel, Győr, Sant'Agata Bolognese and Bologna sites.   
6) Figure refers to dealers worldwide who have implemented the energy-saving Audi terminal architecture concept excluding Audi terminal Eching.   
7) Direct $\mathsf{C}0_{2}$ emissions: This figure is made up of $\mathsf{C O}_{2}$ emissions generated by the use of fuel at the plant, and $\mathsf{C}0_{2}$ emissions produced by the operation of test rigs.   
8) VOC emissions (volatile organic compounds): This figure comprises emissions from the paint shops, test rigs and other facilities.   
9) Direct NO emissions: This figure comprises NO emissions generated by the boiler houses at the plant, paint shops and by the operation of test rigs.   
xx  
10) Transportation of cars from Ingolstadt to Emden, the port of loading on the North Sea coast; since October 2012 also from Neckarsulm.   
11) Our plants participate in the statutory electronic verification procedure for waste management (eANV). Hazardous waste is not mixed with non-hazardous waste; the recycling   
and disposal of hazardous waste is monitored by the eANV.   
12) Incl. non-production-specific waste.   
13) The employee figures are annual averages.   
14) Since 2012 including StEP program (Study and Experience in Practice).   
15) AUDI AG   
16) With respect to indirect employees.   
17) The value indicates the total number of participants since start of the trainings in 2011 for the respective reporting year.   
18) The accident frequency figure indicates how many industrial accidents involving one or more days’ work lost occur per million hours worked.   
19) The attendance rate is calculated using the formula 100–(sick days/payment-relevant days)x100.   
20) Bonus paid in the following year; average figure for pay-scale employees at AUDI AG.   
21) The annual Christmas donation is an employee fundraising campaign initiated by the Works Council which is topped up by the Company. The money raised goes towards social   
and charitable causes in the Ingolstadt and Neckarsulm regions.  

that the data of the Audi Corporate Responsibility Report - Update 2013: CR Program and Key Figures of the Company for the business year 2013 marked with a check mark ( ) has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria stated in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1 (pp. 7 to 17) of the GRI.  

# To Audi Aktiengesellschaft, Ingolstadt  

We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement on selected information of the Audi Corporate Responsibility Report - Update 2013: CR Program and Key Figures of Audi Aktiengesellschaft, Ingolstadt, (the “Company”) for the business year 2013. The sustainability information selected by the Company and evaluated by us has been marked with a check mark ( ).  

# Management’s Responsibility  

Company's Board of Managing Directors is responsible for the proper preparation of the Audi Corporate Responsibility Report - Update 2013: CR Program and Key Figures in accordance with the criteria stated in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1 (pp. 7 to 17) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI):  

We also have been engaged to make recommendations for the further development of sustainability management and sustainability reporting based on the results of our assurance engagement.  

We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. This Standard requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurance engagement, under consideration of materiality, to provide our conclusion with limited assurance.  

In a limited assurance engagement the evidencegathering procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement (for example, an audit of financial statements in accordance with § (Article) 317 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: “German Commercial Code”)), and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement.  

•Materiality,   
•Stakeholder Inclusiveness, •Sustainability Context,   
•Completeness,   
•Balance,   
•Clarity,   
•Accuracy,   
•Timeliness,   
•Comparability and   
•Reliability.  

The procedures selected depend on the practitioner's judgement.  

Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the following procedures:  

¹)Our engagement applied to the German version of the Audi Corporate Responsibility Report - Update 2013: CR Program and Key Figures. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in German language - the German text is authoritative.  

This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the Audi Corporate Responsibility Report - Update 2013: CR Program and Key Figures and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability disclosures which are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the Audi Corporate Responsibility Report - Update 2013: CR Program and Key Figures.  

•Inquiries of personnel responsible for the preparation of the Audi Corporate Responsibility Report - Update 2013: CR Program and Key Figures;   
•Recording of the systems and processes for collection, analysis, validation and aggregation of sustainability data;   
•Analytical procedures on selected sustainability data;   
•Performance of site visits as part of the inspection of processes for collecting, analyzing and aggregating selected data at   
$\leftrightharpoons$ AUDI AG, plant Ingolstadt (Germany),   
• • AUDI AG, plant Neckarsulm (Germany);   
•Comparison of selected data with corresponding data in the Company's Annual Report 2013;   
•Gaining further evidence for selected data of the Audi Corporate Responsibility Report - Update 2013: CR Program and Key Figures due to inspection of internal documents, contracts and invoices/ reports from external service providers.  

# Practitioner’s Responsibility  

Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work performed as to whether anything has come to our attention that causes us to believe  

# Conclusion  

Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data of the Audi Corporate Responsibility Report - Update 2013: CR Program and Key Figures of the Company for the business year 2013 marked with a check mark ( ) has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria stated in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1 (pp. 7 to 17) of the GRI.  

# Emphasis of Matter - Recommendations  

Without qualifying our conclusion presented above, we make the following recommendations for the further development of the Company's sustainability management and sustainability reporting:  

•Continuous development and establishment of CR Program.   
•Promoting further systematization of significant aspects of CR-management through international production locations and subsidiaries.   
•Further enhancing the systematic integration of sustainability aspects in the core processes of the Company.   
•Automation of data consolidation, e.g. through the usage of an IT system for reporting sustainability data.   
Munich, May 20, 2014   
PricewaterhouseCoopers   
Aktiengesellschaft | Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft   
Klaus Schuster Michael Werner   
Wirtschaftsprüfer   
(German Public Auditor)  

# Audi AG  

85045 Ingolstadt   
Germany   
Phone $+49$ 841 89-0   
Fax $+49$ 841 89-32524   
email	 zentrale@audi.de   
www.audi.com   
Dr. Peter F. Tropschuh   
Head of Corporate Responsibility   
I/GX   
email	 cr@audi.de   
www.audi.com/cr  