  

Corporate Responsibility Interim Report 2015  

Audi regards economic success and responsible action as in­separably linked. These form the basis of the trust and delight that our customers experience.  

“Vorsprung durch Technik” embodies not simply techno­ logical innovations, but also our ambition to give equal weight to economic, ecological and social aspects in all the decisions that we make.  

The Audi Group is one of the most successful manufacturers of premium automobiles, ­supercars and sporty motor­ cycles. In the 2015 fiscal year,  

2,024,881   
vehicles delivered   
in the 2015 fiscal year   
1,803,246   
Audi models delivered   
in the 2015 fiscal year   
3,245   
Lamborghini models delivered   
in the 2015 fiscal year   
54,809   
Ducati models delivered   
in the 2015 fiscal year   
+  
3.6 %  
growth in deliveries to customers   
of the core brand Audi  

the Audi Group delivered a total of 2,024,881 vehicles, comprising 1,803,246 Audi models. That corresponds to a growth rate of 3.6 percent in deliveries of the core brand Audi.  

The Lamborghini brand handed over 3,245 vehicles to customers, Ducati delivered 54,809 motor­ cycles.  

The Audi Group thus improved its revenue in 2015 compared with the previous year by 8.6 percent to EUR 58,420 million. Operating profit reached EUR 4,836 million, with an operating return on sales of EUR 8.3 percent.  

#  

# About this report  

# Reporting period  

The performance indicators and goals in the Audi Corporate Responsibility Interim Report refer to the period from January 1, 2015, through December 31, 2015. As well as AUDI AG, they include its subsidiaries. Detailed information on the scope of consolidated companies of the Audi Group can be found in the Audi 2015 Annual Report at www.audi.com/ar2015. If the report refers to individual com­ panies, sites or brands only, this is noted accordingly in the text.  

Reporting cycle in accordance with GRI Guidelines   
The Audi Corporate Responsibility Interim Report 2015 is not a full report based on the G4   
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. The full report ap­­ pears every two years and will next be updated in the first half of 2017.  

# Report content  

As well as giving account of cur­ rent performance indicators and providing an update on our goals and measures in the area of corporate responsibility, this report spotlights the topics of the future that are of impor­ tance to Audi: Alternative drive systems, digitalization and the changing world of work present numerous challenges to the Audi Group. Our commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact means that we approach these challenges in such a way that we help achieve sustainable, in other words future-proof, solutions. This also includes taking the opinions of external and internal stake­ holders into account. We ad­­ dress these topics in the ­articles “Intelligence & Connectivity,” “Ecology & Emotion” and “Humans & Machines,” and discuss them with external experts.  

UN Global Compact AUDI AG, as a subsidiary of Volkswagen AG, temporarily sus­ pended its membership of the UN Global Compact at the end of 2015, in light of discussions ­surrounding emission figures. Independent of our temporary suspension of membership,  

we underscore our commit­ ment to the principles of the UN Global Compact.  

# Contact  

Readers with questions or com­ ments are invited to contact Prof. Dr.-Ing. Peter F. Tropschuh, Head of Corporate Responsibility at AUDI AG, by email at cr@audi.de.  

The Interim Report 2015 and the Audi Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 based on the GRI G4 Guidelines can be accessed in German and English at  

www.audi.com/cr-report where the printed reports can also be requested.  

  

# CR program  

The Audi CR program links our measures for responsible corporate management with our strategic goals. The corporate goal to ensure ­“Sustainability of products and processes” points the way for our CR work. The complete Audi CR program is available at www.audi.com/cr-report.  

# Operations  

  

# Product  

  

# Environment  

  

# Employees  

  

# Society  

  

# Audi & Co.  

2015 The challenges with which we are confronted today are becoming ever more complex. Hand in hand with partners, we need to develop sound ideas and viable solutions. By joining forces, we will be able to make swifter progress from idea to plan, from prototype to product.  

That is what inspired us to choose “Audi & Co.” as the title of our Corporate Responsibility Interim Report. We seek dialogue, explore fresh trends and also tackle critical issues. Climate change, digitalization and growing fl exibility in the world of work are challenges that currently preoccupy not just Audi, but society as a whole. On the following pages we provide an insight into the encounters that we had and the conversations that we conducted on these topics.  

Cover   
About Audi |About this report   
CR program   
Key fi gures   
Audit report  

Dear Readers,  

  

We live responsibility. This is not simply a slogan for us, but a defi ned corporate goal. We are aware that this goal has been brought into question in recent months: For the diesel emissions issue has also deeply shocked Audi as part of the Volkswagen Group. We therefore temporarily suspended our membership in the United Nations Global Compact, the largest initiative worldwide for responsible corporate management, at the end of 2015.  

Not only must and will we unreservedly expose these accusations, we also have to address the consequences. This means, in particular, the establishing of new structures, new processes and above all new ways of thinking in the Company. Much of this has already been introduced, but a lot still remains to be done.  

The experience of recent months makes it all the more important to focus our entire technological expertise on actively shaping the future of our society. We are therefore focusing on three topics in this report which will be decisive for the future viability of Audi: climate change, digitalization and fl exibilization of the working environment.  

In the future, we will focus even more closely on the environmental impact of our cars along the value chain. For that reason, zero-emission drive units in electric cars are as much a feature of our agenda as is the advancement of hydrogen fuel cells. We are therefore working on eco- friendly production methods, integral logistics chains, a comprehensive recycling concept and new non-fossil fuels. We have started up the fi rst pilot plants that capture climate-damaging $\mathsf{C O}_{2}$ and use surplus wind power to produce synthetic gas.  

A second challenge is digitalization: Data is a valuable commodity today and in the future. Along with other companies, Audi is therefore working in partnership with the digital map provider HERE to optimize the real-time platform for mobility data. This platform enables us to use swarm intelligence as the basis for predictive driver assistance systems and new mobility services. And amid all this we take data protection and data security very seriously. We will be making driving a car much safer in the future with the help of algorithms. Piloted driving has the potential to cut the number of accidents and road deaths by up to 90 percent in the long term. We will be bringing out the fi rst fully fl edged traffi c jam pilot in 2017, initially in the Audi A8. At the push of a button, it will take charge of lane-keeping, accelerating and braking at speeds of up to 65 km/h.  

In the third section, we will address changes in the work environment, in particular the demand for greater fl exibilization. Industrialization in the 19th century pursued the goal of replacing human labor with machines. We are blazing a new trail with our Smart Factory: We are shifting the focus to people. Robots hand components to factory workers, innovative goggles project the next working steps in the wearer’s fi eld of vision, and 3D printers accelerate the process of manufacturing new tools. One thing is already clear: Self-learning machines with artifi cial intelligence will keep making everyday life easier for us – including at the workplace. At the same time there is the growing desire among our employees for more fl exibility and for innovative work models which enable work and private life to be combined more easily. That is why our pursuit of taking the lead also includes shaping tomorrow’s world of work.  

And when addressing these topics, it is also important to listen to the critical voices of our stakeholders. This prin ciple is observed in the report “Audi & Co.” Because only an honest and open dialogue will enable us to operate sustainably – with passion, resolve and enthusiasm. So that we at Audi make life better for people.  

  
Prof. Rupert Stadler Chairman of the Board of Management of AUDI AG  

  

Intelligence &Connectivity  

# Prof. Dr. Michael Schreckenberg  

Professor for Physics of Transport and Traffi  c, University of Duisburg-Essen  

  

  

# Andreas Reich  

Head of Electrics/ Electronics Pre-Development, Audi Electronics Venture GmbH  

  

When will the fi rst self-driving cars appear on the market? What new tech nologies and what level of connectivity will they need? How will we view cars that drive more safely than we do, and how will they change society? Audi developers Marcus Keith and Andreas Reich meet traffi  c researcher Prof. Dr. Michael Schreckenberg at the Munich Traffi  c Control Center to discuss the topic.  

# Marcus Keith  

Head of Development for Display/Operation/Audi connect, AUDI AG  

  

  

If vehicles   
drive themselves, traffi c will   
become more   
defensive and   
there will be far fewer accidents.  

Andreas Reich  

  

A discussion on connected mobility: Prof. Dr. Michael Schreckenberg, Marcus Keith and Andreas Reich (from left) in the Technical Operations Center of the City of Munich  

  

The venue for the discussion between Prof. Dr. Michael Schreckenberg, Marcus Keith and Andreas Reich is the City of Munich’s Traffi cControl Center in the Technical Operations Center, in the suburb of Moosach, opened in 2012. Here, public-administration and police operators control the traffi c 24/7 and have to respond to around 2,000 alerts every day. Some 700 cameras, most of them in tunnels, supply video images that are constantly monitored on a 17-meter-wide multimedia wall.  

For such driving conditions, we will gradually increase the speed, enable lane-changing and gain a command of complex situations. The other level is piloted driving in the parking garage or on the parking lot. The driver climbs out at the barrier, and the car does the rest all by itself. The low speeds involved here mean that such an environment can be controlled extremely well. Over time these two areas will converge, strongly supported by the new assistance and safety systems.  

# Do you think that strategy is coherent, Mr. Schreckenberg?  

S C H R E C K E N B E R G Defi nitely, development can only advance in stages. The problems that arise with autonomous driving are so wide-ranging that we are only just starting to recognize them bit by bit. Google’s situation is entirely diff erent: It can be assumed that their aim is not to build and sell cars, but to collect data. And even though Google cars drive slowly,  accidents keep happening – pos - sibly precisely because they obstruct the traffi  c.  

A bout four million cars travel along Munich’s streets every day, but only a fraction of them communicate with their surroundings. For all the high tech that the city has at its disposal, the Traffi  c Control Center in Moosach can only guide the traffi  c to a certain extent; direct communication with the vehicles is not yet possible. Audi is working on new technologies that cars will use to organize themselves – including comprehensive connectivity, as well as new systems for autonomous driving that Audi calls piloted driving.  

Models such as the new A4 and new Q7 already point the way ahead. Their online services, grouped together under the term Audi connect, link them to the Internet, the infrastructure and to other vehicles. Their assistance systems operate predictively – for instance, they can alert the driver to a tight bend that comes just after the crest of a hill, or traffic jam assist can take charge of the steering in slow-moving traffi  c on good roads, at a speed of up to $65\,\mathsf{k m}/\mathsf{h}$ . These technologies represent a pre-stage to piloted driving, which will be introduced in series production in 2017 with the next A8 generation.  

Mr. Keith, Mr. Reich, Google has gener - ated a huge amount of publicity with its self-driving experimental  vehicles. Aren’t you being a bit cautious?  

#  

# The way our cus tomers behave at the wheel – their individual driving profi le – is a very important aspect for piloted driving.  

Marcus Keith  

K E I T H That’s an elementary question of your approach. Here at AUDI AG, we fundamentally only advocate solutions that work in every situation and whose limits we know precisely. We aren’t in the business of taking risks; every single step we take has fi rm foundations. Can you describe the Audi roadmap? R E I C H We are moving towards piloted driving on two levels. One is the autobahn.  

Confirmed on the monitor wall in the Traffic Control Center in an array of individual images: On the Tuesday afternoon of Audi’s visit, Munich’s traffic is flowing as it should. Not just because all drivers are keeping to the rules, but also because some of them interpret the rules a little more liberally and occasionally cross a solid line to speed up the process of lanechanging. Self-driving cars do not do that – according to Marcus Keith, it goes without saying that their technology is designed to comply with legal requirements.  

# How easily will the driver be able to handle the computer at the steering wheel in the future?  

S C H R E C K E N B E R G Today’s traffic works because most of us have signed up to a kind of code of conduct. That equilibrium gets disrupted if a foreign body operates by different rules. The same is true of a person sitting in an autonomous car: If they can’t influence the vehicle’s responses they’ll soon lose confidence in it. That’s why we should try to humanize auto nomous cars – maybe by providing a kind of humanizer button that will also allow us to do $60\,\mathsf{k m}/\mathsf{h}$ on city streets. But fi rst we need to achieve an even better understanding of how humans behave behind the wheel before we can transfer that idea to the vehicle.  

R E I C H I adopt a different perspective: If vehicles drive themselves, traffic will become more defensive and there will be far fewer accidents.  

# So we’ll be driving signifi cantly more slowly?  

I don’t think so – more fluidly, perhaps. I’m with Andreas Reich on this: Piloted driving cars can save lives. The biggest source of error remains the human being.  

And what does a piloted driving car do if it has to choose who to crash into in an emergency situation?  

R E I C H It’s still too early to define ethical criteria in the technology. I assume our technology will have moved on a long way in ten or 20 years’ time. And by then, we’ll be able to answer such questions reliably.  

There are about 1,200 sets of traffic lights in Munich, and most of them work automatically. Audi is now going the next step: In 2017, traffic lights will start connecting with cars in several U.S. cities. The driver of a new Q7 or A4 sees a display in the cockpit telling them what speed to drive in order to reach the next traffic light on green. The new service can cut fuel consumption in urban traffic by 15 percent. In parallel, Audi is adding the fi rst Car-to-X technologies to its connect portfolio in Europe – the new models are becoming part of a swarm. They report the speed limits or hazard points they have identifi ed to a server in the cloud, via the mobile communications network. The server collects the data, processes it and makes it available to other Audi drivers – customized to their situation, and always right up to date.  

Connectivity and Car-to-X are in  - separable elements of piloted driving – and now this entire field of technology is getting a new platform. A few months ago, AUDI AG acquired the mapping service HERE together with the BMW Group and Daimler AG.  

# Mr. Keith, what will HERE be able to  contribute in the future?  

K E I T H HERE has the potential to gen - erate a digital image of our world of mobility – with extreme precision thanks to the  enormous level of detail of the data, and up to the minute by virtue of the dynamic content. We can pack many layers of information into the centimeter-precise maps – from traffi  c light cycles and information on parking spaces to the individual behavior of drivers on the move, a really important aspect. To obtain the algorithms that you need to make precise predictions, there are a number of technology firms in the United States and China who have specialized in the fi eld of artifi - cial intelligence or machine learning.  

#  

# The problems that arise with autonomous driving are so wide-ranging that we are only just starting to recognize them bit by bit.  

Prof. Dr. Michael Schreckenberg  

#  

  
Present-day hightech: The Traffi  c Control Center receives images from 700 cameras which record the traffi  c in Munich, with its population of over one million.  

I believe it would be a good idea to talk to such suppliers.  

Communication uses the mobile network, via the HERE back end, in other words via a server in the cloud. How secure is customer data?  

R E I C H We talk of security by de sign – we consider the topic right at the start of development. And we have given the cars’ electronics architecture firewalls and separate control units to prevent a hacker from getting at the brakes, steering and accelerator.  

# What about passing on customer data to third parties?  

K E I T H When we pass on movement data to a traffi  c fl ow provider today, this information is anonymized. That must remain the case – we will continue to separate the individual-related entertainment data from the vehicle data that we need for functions. And there is plenty of the latter, because our cars are be coming intelligent systems. Radar-guided cruise control, for instance, will work even more accurately in the future if we can keep optimizing its control  algorithm via the back end.  

There are many social dimensions to the vision of “piloted driving.” One of them was recently set out by Audi Board of Management Chairman Rupert Stadler. “We see the Audi of the future as a place to work, a place of relaxation and a place to experience things. If the cars of the future can drive automatically, people will be able to use the time they spend on board differently. They will reach their destination faster, more conveniently and more relaxed. All that saves time, and time is the most precious gift in today’s world.”  

# Mr. Schreckenberg, will piloted driving reduce or increase traffi  c levels on our roads?  

S C H R E C K E N B E R G There are two opposing trends here. On the one hand, there are plenty of older people who might venture back out onto the roads in a car with autonomous drive – that would prompt an increase in traffic. On the other hand, we have young people who are open to car sharing and the idea of networked transport. I think we will have fewer vehicles in cities, but they will drive more because the fleet will be put to better use, and we will be able to use parking space much more efficiently. We will save energy and our cities will become cleaner – and we will still enjoy driving.  

R E I C H I can echo that. We will often enjoy taking to the wheel ourselves – and will also appreciate that it’s still there.  

# Piloted driving  

Google car  

Audi RS 7 piloted driving concept (“Robby”)  

Electric motor  

Windscreen camera, front and rear radar, rotating LiDAR laser on roof, inertial navigation system  

4.0 TFSI  

3D cameras at front and rear, each with opening angle of $^{103\circ}$ , aerial for diff erential GPS  

Two-seater city car Four-door coupe  

The two-seater Google car is an ex - perimental vehicle of which around 50 have so far been built (as of: February 2016). It can also travel on public roads at up to $40\,\mathsf{k m}/\mathsf{h}$ .  

Audi is using “Robby” above all to explore the dynamic aspects of piloted driving. Its laps around the racetrack in Sonoma were already faster than those of racing drivers.  

Sources: Meyer, Nathanael (2015): Das müssen Sie über fahrerlose Autos wissen. URL: http://www.focus.de/wissen/technik/ mobilitaet/das-google-driverless-car-das-muessen-sie-jetzt-ueber-fahrerlose-autos-wissen_id_4615803.html; auto.de (2016): Roboter in den USA legal am Steuer. URL: http://www.auto.de/magazin/roboter-in-den-usa-legal-am-steuer; dpa (2015): Robo ter-Auto ist zu langsam für den Straßenverkehr. URL: http://www.wiwo.de/technologie/auto/google-roboter-auto-ist-zulang sam-fuer-den-strassenverkehr/12585408.html (all as of: April 12, 2016)  

# New online services  

» Those who try to   
make a robot intelligent   
develop a huge amount   
of respect for the   
magnitude of human   
intelligence. «  

Chris Urmson Developer responsible for Google’s driverless car  

is the maximum error in GPS location that is tolerated for piloted driving.   
Source: Gulde, Dirk (2015): ibid., p. 112  

points per second are measured by the Google car’s LiDAR radar. Source: Gulde, Dirk (2015): In kleinen Schritten ans große Ziel, in: auto motor und sport, No. 26, p. 111  

# Car-to-X services  

# Traffi  c sign information for Europe  

Audi is introducing the fi rst Car-to-X services in series production in the A4 and Q7 in 2017.  

20 cm The dedicated on-board camera analyzes the speed limit signs and communicates with a server in the cloud. The information is fed into updates to the Audi navigation maps. One advantage is that speed can be regulated predictively and effi  ciently.  

# Facts & fi gures  

Using the swarm intelligence principle, cars alert each other to hazards such as accidents, black ice or poor visibility. This can appreciably increase safety on the road.  

# Today  

# Traffi  c light information for the United States  

This service uses the mobile communications network to connect Audi models with the central traffi  c computer that controls the city’s traffi  c lights. The driver receives a speed recommendation to help them reach the next traffi  c light on green. This saves fuel and makes the driver’s task easier.  

  

# Connectivity today  

Audi connect services  

# Hazard information for Europe  

1.3 million Vehicles already connect seamlessly with their environment, and will continue to do so in the future.  

2:07.67 min  

is the time it took for the Audi RS 7 piloted driving concept to complete a lap of the FAST Parcmotor circuit near Barcelona in 2015.  

# Future  

» In ten years’ time, there will be fully automated cars in the  

# showroom. «  

# Alexander Dobrindt  

Federal Minister of Transport and Digital Infrastructure of all accidents could be avoided with piloted driving cars, according to Google. Source: Czycholl, Harald (2014): Auf Autopilot. URL: http://www.welt.de/wissenschaft/ artic le126577949/Autos-fahren-schon-bald-wie-vonGeisterhand.html (as of: April 12, 2016)  

  

» I estimate that automated driving on the autobahn can cut fuel consumption by up to 20 percent. «  

Prof. Dr. Karsten Lemmer   
Head of the Institute of Transportation Systems,   
German Aerospace Center (DLR)  

  

Ecology &Emotion  

#  

  

Siegfried Pint Head of Driveline   
Electrifi cation Development,   
AUDI AG  

  

# Dr. Wiebke Zimmer  

Deputy Director of Resources & Mobility, Öko-Institut e. V.  

The location: a former electrical substation in Berlin. In dialogue: Dr. Wiebke Zimmer of Öko-Institut e. V. and Audi electric powertrain developer Siegfried Pint. The scientist and the engineer are discussing issues that move people: How are young urbanites getting around? How is personal mobility changing? Will we soon be driving cars  powered by electricity or innovative fuels? And which path makes ecological and economic sense?  

  

  

Dedicated cyclist meets passionate car fan: Dr. Wiebke Zimmer and Siegfried Pint.  

  

  

  

The past meets the future: Two experts from the fi eld of tomorrow’s mobility meet in a historically protected electrical substation. The substation was built in 1927/28 and supplied electricity to many residents of the Prenzlauer Berg district. Today, it primarily serves as a backdrop for movies and photo shoots. And as the perfect location for a highly charged discussion.  

way and piece together a clever mobility chain using your smartphone. The trend toward more sustainable transport is not yet completely clear, but the underlying conditions, such as the building of cycle paths, have not yet been met properly either.  

# Audi can’t be all that thrilled about this development. How are you responding to this trend?  

P I N T First of all, we want to find out what is causing young people to drive cars less. Maybe the car has become impractical for their changed pattern of use – it just stands around 23 hours a day and has too many bothersome secondary eff ects. Thanks to today’s information density, young people live much faster than we did back then.  

# How would you make the car more attractive to young people?  

P I N T I believe it makes sense to estab - lish a new vehicle habitat that is fully net worked with the community and with piloted driving. Each of us would like to spare ourselves the time and hassle of dealing with the parking garage and fi lling station. In the future, this will be possible: If I want to drive somewhere by car, I will have it drive up from the parking garage to my front door, charged and also freshly washed.  

  
Dr. Wiebke Zimmer: “Young people view the car less and less as a status symbol.”  

Ms. Zimmer, what modes of  transport do you use to Z I M M E R I don’t particularly like driving a car. I did get my driver’s license, but I’ve almost never driven. I simply feel much more free this way in the city. I like riding a bicycle very much, and besides, the public transport system here in Berlin is terrifi c. And what does driving a car mean to you, Mr. Pint?  

P I N T I live in Munich and work in Ingolstadt, so I regularly travel longer distances. To me, the car also means emotion and fun, both professionally and personally. To take this even further, I ride my motorbike in my free time in the summer, both cross-country and also on the racetrack.  

Then you might be one of a dying generation of car fans. Ms. Zimmer, how do young people deal with the issue of mobility?  

Z I M M E R There is a noticeable trend among a young urban population to view the car less as a status symbol. If you have to get from A to B, you take a pragmatic approach: You seek out the most convenient Z I M M E R More than anything else, piloted driving can off er environmental advantages when people share cars with each other. When it comes to carsharing, Audi is not yet really visible …  

P I N T Traditional carsharing is certainly a good alternative for the volume segment, but we also want to off er premium mobility here. Depending on the type of transport needed – urban, highway or long-haul – our sharing customer would be able to choose from diff erent cars.  

# Whether shared or owned – what kind of drive systems will we be using in the future?  

P I N T In ten years, we will probably have a signifi cant share of electric cars in our portfolio, although it is very diffi  cult to make a precise forecast.  

# Does the diesel engine crisis present an opportunity for electric mobility?  

P I N T Among customers, the low fuel price is currently having a sharply dampening eff ect. Nonetheless, I believe that the current debate is certainly  accelerating electric mobility …  

Z I M M E R … but much less than I would have thought. Electric cars would be the best motorized solution for reducing $\mathsf{N O}_{\mathsf{x}}$ emissions in cities. But they aren’t really being talked about, despite the high pollution levels: Maximum levels were exceeded over the past year at 60 percent of all measurement points in Germany.  

  

# To me, the car also means emotion and fun, both professionally and personally. And in the summer I like riding my motorbike in my free time.  

Siegfried Pint  

Siegfried Pint:   
“With electric   
mobility, we   
obviously have a   
chicken-or-the-egg   
problem.”  

I don’t particularly like driving a car. I simply feel much more free on the  bicycle, and besides, the public transport system in Berlin is very good.  

Dr. Wiebke Zimmer  

  

# And who should go fi rst?  

P I N T In my opinion, the issue of charging is an overriding one and is a duty of society or of the national economy. It shouldn’t be the case that each car manufacturer con structs its own charging infrastructure with its own energy provider.  

# Isn’t the CharIN initiative the right approach here?  

P I N T CharIN is certainly the right direction in Germany as well as internationally. We have agreed here with other car manufacturers on the same charging interface – that is, the same plug connector and the same charge current, which was not at all easy. As a manufacturer of premium automobiles, we need somewhat more charging capacity, since our cars are of course somewhat larger. However, the energy consumption of a specifi c car also depends highly on aerodynamic resistance – our Audi e-tron quattro concept technology platform, for instance, is as large as a Q7, but thanks to its superb aerodynamics, uses only as much energy as an Audi A4 when driving long distances.  

Ms. Zimmer, what do public policymakers need to do to eff ectively promote electric mobility? Z I M M E R In my opinion, regulatory policy is the most eff ective. You have to design $\mathsf{C O}_{2}$ and emission limits so that manufacturers have no other choice than to bring electric cars onto the market. Buying incentives can also provide a boost – getting money from the government is, after all, a psychological factor. These would have to be fi nanced in a way that does not impact revenue, however, through a fee on the petroleum tax, or through a bonus-malus system.  

P I N T Such a bonus-malus system is actually already established through fleet consumption. In our portfolio management, we always have to consider that for every new large car, many smaller new cars also have to be added.  

# So what would you like to see in terms of public policy?  

P I N T I would like to see all of the stakeholders do their homework when it comes to the charging infrastructure, since the lack of this infrastructure is a very clear stumbling block to carbon-neutral mobility. When I drove to Berlin yesterday with the Q7 e-tron quattro [1], I couldn’t fi nd a decent place to recharge the car on either the autobahn or in the city. We obviously have a classic chicken-or-the-egg problem: The automotive industry does not want to provide the infrastructure for a specifi c brand, and the public sector is waiting for the cars to be off ered.  

# Would a car like that be acceptable for you, Ms. Zimmer?  

Z I M M E R Not really (laughs). The output is in the range of a cargo truck, and I do have to wonder whether that is absolutely necessary. Electric mobility is a central pillar for climate protection, but it’s not the only one – it is also important to reduce energy needs. When electric cars are not effi  cient enough, electricity needs increase, and we have to consider carefully here where all of these additional renewable energies are supposed to come from.  

# What does your analysis look like?  

In Germany, we currently obtain almost 200 terawatt-hours from renewable energies. That is about one third of our gross electricity consumption. If we were to assume that one day the entire population of passenger cars will consist of small, effi  cient electric cars only, then it would add up to 100 terawatt-hours of energy consumption for the German vehicle population alone. And that doesn’t even include truck traffi  c!  

P I N T I prefer to calculate here with the necessary output. In Germany, we have more than 160 gigawatts of installed capacity, far exceeding the average load of 70 gigawatts, since only 15 to 20 percent of alternative energy capacities are used, due to their fl uctuation. If you consider annual kilometers driven and the time, the average power requirement of a passenger car amounts to only about 300 watts, which is not much at all. The nearly 50 million cars together therefore need just 15 gigawatts, and this we can obtain relatively easily from alternative energies.  

What about storing the non-usable peaks of clean energy? AUDI AG has the fuel Audi e-gas, which operates according to the power-to-gas principle.  

Z I M M E R Electricity-based fuels don’t solve the problem of pollution emissions in the cities. And if we compare them with technologies like the battery electric drive system, their energy use during manufacture is considerably higher. Still, I think it makes sense to look closely at electricitybased fuel, because we will need it if we envision having a decarbonized transport sector by 2050 – not so much for cars, but rather for where there are no good alternatives, such as in air transport.  

P I N T In the production chain as we have designed it, hydrogen is produced already before synthetic methane. If we were to use it in a fuel cell, it would guarantee zero emissions locally. Hydrogen can certainly be of interest for long-distance mobility, including, incidentally, for commercial vehicles. Compared with the battery electric vehicle, the environmental footprint and capacity is much more favorable when driving this way.  

# And who will build the hydrogen infrastructure?  

P I N T Here I would call even more loudly for the national economy or public sector than I do in the case of electric mobility (grins).  

Z I M M E R It will be essential to decide which fuel and which drive system will be used to cope with long distances, so that we can achieve an infrastructure that is as  

To have a high share of electrifi ed cars and electricitybased fuels in the long term, we have to  consider where we will get the additional renewable energies required for this.  

Dr. Wiebke Zimmer  

# We can easily cover the additional capacity needs for electrifi ed cars with existing alternative energies.  

Siegfried Pint  

  

standardized as possible. In our analysis, we come to the conclusion that the fuel cell has the highest cost in national economic terms even over the long term, despite technical improvements. The main factors are the costs of the fuel-cell drive system and the high cost of providing the energy – although its future development is not fully clear.  

P I N T That’s true: The material and manufacturing costs currently exceed that for battery electric cars.  

Z I M M E R The vision, however, would be to directly use the electricity anywhere it is possible. Why don’t we build battery electric vehicles with range extenders? For the tiny amount of liquid fuel we would use here, we could take electricity-based fuels and dispense with the expensive hydrogen infrastructure.  

Electric energy, yesterday and today: the Audi Q7 e-tron quattro [1] in the former substation at Prenzlauer Berg P I N T That could be an economically acceptable method, if we limit ourselves to 180, 200 kilometers of battery range and also install an economical combustion engine that operates on Audi e-gas. But I would like to continue pursuing fuel cell technology anyway, because for us as a manufacturer it would be too risky to put all our eggs in one basket. If the matter takes off  and customer demand comes, we have to be in the position to respond quickly.  

  

# What does the well-towheel analysis for an electrifi ed car look like? Isn’t it carrying a heavy ecological backpack – just con  

sidering the rare earths alone?   
P I N T Rare earths are only used in per - manently excited electric machines, and there are alternatives to these. The battery contains nickel, manganese and cobalt, among other things – these materials have to be introduced into a recycling loop. After their initial use in the car, they would fi rst be further used in a storage power station, and only then would they be recycled in a way that makes sense.   
Z I M M E R But despite the recycling, we should handle resources effi  ciently and minimize their use as much as possible. The lithium-ion battery in your concept car is very large. If all three million cars that are newly introduced to German roads each year were similarly equipped electric cars, then almost 90 percent of the lithium   
production worldwide would go into these cars. That would be an argument for less high-powered and somewhat smaller   
premium cars, wouldn’t it?   
P I N T The lithium content determines the range, and we want to off er 500 kilometers and more – since to us this means it is suitable as a household’s main car. A small electric car that is only an add-on for the customer does not replace any other car.  

Not always in agreement, but always relaxed and  constructive: the scientist and engineer in dialogue  

# How is the Audi A3 Sportback e-tron [2] doing in the market?  

P I N T Well, this is a car that would more likely appeal to you, Ms. Zimmer. It’s a compact plug-in hybrid that can cover a lot of journeys on all-electric power. At the moment, the A3 Sportback e-tron [2] is so popular that we have already had to increase our planned volume twice. And in practice on the roads, we see that customers develop the ambition to reduce consumption all on their own.  

Ms. Zimmer, Mr. Pint, you have talked a lot now about economy, ecology and transport, and you have not always agreed. What would you like to say to each other in conclusion?  

P I N T I would like to invite you, Ms. Zimmer, to take a drive with me in an Audi e-tron quattro concept, right here in Berlin. The concept with the three motors is a lot of fun because it adds transverse dynamics to the longitudinal dynamics, so the car is really snappy when taking corners. You can even experience this when driving down Prenzlauer Berg to go shopping. Electric mobility can be a lot of fun. Z I M M E R Thank you very much, Mr. Pint, but I’d rather continue riding my bicycle. But I will be happy to accept your off er when something really changes in the area of transport – when electric mobility, renewable energies, effi  cient vehicles and alternative mobility concepts go hand in hand.  

[1] Audi Q7 e-tron 3.0 TDI quattro   
Combined fuel consumption in $1/100\,{\mathsf{k m}};$ 1.9 – 1.8;   
combined electricity consumption in kWh/100 km: 19.0 – 18.1; combined $\mathsf{C O}_{2}$ emissions in g/km: 50 – 48   
[2] Audi A3 Sportback e-tron   
Combined fuel consumption (gasoline) in $1/100\,{\mathsf{k m}}$ : 1.7 – 1.5; combined electricity consumption in kWh/100 km: 12.4 – 11.4; combined $\mathsf{C O}_{2}$ emissions in g/km: 39 – 35   
[3] Audi A3 Sportback g-tron   
Combined fuel consumption (gasoline) in $1/100\,{\mathsf{k m}}$ : 5.5 – 5.1; combined fuel consumption (CNG) in $\mathsf{k q}/\mathsf{100}\,\mathsf{k m}$ : 3.6 – 3.3; combined $\mathsf{C O}_{2}$ emissions in ${\mathfrak{g}}/{\mathfrak{k}}{\mathfrak{m}}$ : 128 – 89  

#  

We are pursuing various drive technologies. It would be too risky for us as a manufacturer to put all our eggs in one basket.  

Siegfried Pint  

We should decide which fuel and which drive system we will use to cope with long distances, so that a standardized infrastructure can be created.  

Dr. Wiebke Zimmer  

# Electricitybased fuels  

# Power-to-gas  

Audi e-gas is a sustainable fuel: Green electricity powers a process in which synthetic methane is created in two stages from water and $\mathsf{C O}_{2}$ . Drivers of $\L_{9}$ -tron models can use the Audi e-gas tank card as a balancing tool: The amount they fi ll their tanks with is fed back into the CNG grid as Audi e-gas. 1,000 from Audi’s own e-gas plant in Werlte (Lower  Saxony). Up to 2,800 metric tons of $\mathsf{C O}_{2}$ are bound in it.  

1,500 Audi A3 Sportback $\L_{9}$ -tron [3] cars can thus drive 15,000 carbon-neutral kilometers each year.  

# Carsharing  

# A growing market  

The carsharing market has grown sharply in recent years. Yet it still hardly presents a medium-term threat to the new car business: Up to 2021, only 1.3 percent of private customers want to forgo buying a new car in favor of carsharing.  

≈90,000 carsharing vehicles were on the roads worldwide in 2015.  

≈€4,700 million is forecast to be the global total sales fi gure for carsharing in 2021.  

# Strong growth Carsharing cars in Germany  

  

Source: The Boston Consulting Group (2016): Deutschland ist Europameister im Carsharing. press release, Munich.   
URL: www.bcg.de/media/   
PressReleaseDetails.aspx?id=tcm:89-205543 (as of: April 12, 2016)  

# Electric mobility  

»Electrification of the powertrain is necessary and makes sense. But fully electric cars are not the only solution. « Prof. Dr.-Ing. Michael Bargende Chair of Automotive Powertrains at the University of Stuttgart’s Institute for Internal Combustion Engines and Automotive Engineering  

#  

# Current situation  

In Germany, electric mobility is only slowly gaining momentum. According to an analysis by the international management consultancy Bain & Company, the German government will no longer achieve its goal of having one million electrifi ed cars on the road by 2020. Other countries are ahead in this area.  

Source: Bain & Company (2015): Eine Million E-Autos in Deutschland bis 2020 nicht zu schaff en. Press release, Munich. URL: http://www.bain.de/press/press-archive/bainanalyse-zur-elektromobilitaet.aspx (as of: April 12, 2016)  

# Facts and fi gures  

Share of electric cars and plug-in hybrids among all new registrations in the fi rst quarter of 2015  

Source: Bain & Company (2015): ibid.  

  

≈47,000 all-electric cars and plug-in hybrids were in Germany at the end of 2015.  

≈5,600 charging points were available at 2,500 publicly accessible charging stations in Germany in mid-2015. Among these, only a good 100 were direct-current quick-charging outlets.  

Source: auto motor und sport, issue 4/16, p. 112  

# Fuel consumption  

# Study on effi ciency  

Population of passenger cars (in millions)  

  

  

Average fuel consumption (in l/100 km)  

  

Germans are driving more  

and more kilometers by car – but more and more  

# economically.  

2002 2013  

Source: German Federal Statistical Offi  ce (pub.) (2015): Umweltökonomische Gesamtrechnungen. Wiesbaden, p. 12  

# Audi e-tron quattro concept:  

# An electric future  

The Audi e-tron quattro concept technology study, presented at the IAA 2015, off ers a real glimpse of what Audi is planning in the near future. The sporty full-size SUV is an all-electric car. Under its passenger compartment is a large lithium-ion battery that powers three electric motors – one on the front axle and two on the rear axle.  

4.6 sec.  

from 0 to $100\,\mathsf{k m}/\mathsf{h}$ 320kWpower output 95 kWh battery capacity > 500 km  

range  

> 800 Nm  

torque  

  

Humans &Machines  

#  

Dual study programs, part-time professional development, parental leave, international work assignments, caregiver leave, partial retirement: These days, careers adapt to the employee’s phase in life, not the other way around. Internationalization and digitalization further intensify the demand for fl exible solutions – for both the company and for each individual employee. During a tour through the Audi plant in Ingolstadt, Dr. Jochen Haberland, Karl Unger and Prof. Dr.-Ing. Wilhelm Bauer discuss the dynamic transformation of the workplace.  

Strategy/System and Technology Development,  

  
Dr. Jochen Haberland Head of HR Policy and Key Issues, AUDI AG  

  

# Prof. Dr.-Ing. Wilhelm Bauer  

Head of the Fraunhofer Institute for Industrial Engineering (IAO)  

  

  

  

Virtually every single Audi that rolls off  the assembly line is one of a kind. The variety is vast. This requires extremely fl exible production processes. This trend toward personalization can not only be observed on products; it also defi nes the requirements of employees with respect to things such as working hours, the workplace, working practices and work content.  

Co-workers are sitting, deep in conversation at the entrance to offi  ce building T02 at Technical Development. A couple of steps further, voices can be heard through one of the two revolving doors. In the colorfully decorated cafeteria with high tables and sitting areas, the prevailing atmosphere is one of a motivated work environment. “There is a strong desire for personalization,” confi rms Dr. Jochen Haberland, Head of HR Policy and Key Issues at Audi. “This also impacts seemingly very trivial things such as interior design: It involves more than just quiet corners in open-plan offi  ces – it also calls for an ambiance that promotes creativity and makes it possible to network with colleagues.”  

Working practices that are adapted to individual needs are highly prized by employees. This raises the obvious question of where things stand regarding the use of telecommuting arrangements. Thanks to powerful PCs and fast Internet connections, many tasks can – at least theoretically – be handled from anywhere. Working from home is an attractive idea for many people – and many employees at Audi also regularly use this option. “I don’t at all subscribe to the notion that we will all be working only from home in the future and will only be connected with each other digitally,” explains Prof. Dr.-Ing. Wilhelm Bauer, Head of the Fraunhofer Institute for Industrial Engineering (IAO).  

# We should be concerning ourselves with how companies in the future can generate new, interesting work.  

Prof. Dr.-Ing. Wilhelm Bauer “Much more exciting, in my view, is a so-called space for possibilities that leaves employees free to decide which tasks they want to accomplish when and where. Depending on the needs and the  situation, telecommuting can then be one of multiple options.”  

The exclusive use of an employee’s own four walls as a workplace can even have negative consequences: A corporate culture developed over the years is lost and the creative exchange of ideas between employees suff ers. Karl Unger, Head of Production Strategy/System and Technology Development at Audi, therefore sees working from home as more of an option for special tasks: “If a longer text document needs to be read or edited, for example, employees like to take advantage of the peace and quiet at home. In my environment, I have only had good experiences with that.”  

Still, even in the 21st century, cars are built on an assembly line in a production hall. There’s no question that work in Production is very diff erent from, for example, work in an offi  ce. The workstations in a precisely timed production facility must be staff ed at all times. Yet there is freedom for Production employees even within the shift system, Karl Unger says: “The groupwork system introduced many years ago allows various work positions to be staff ed fl exibly, such as in rotation.” Aside from changing workstations and the part-time models off ered by Audi, there are however some limits to the options for variation in Production.  

So will that change in the future? “Progress that’s being made in cooperation between humans and machines could relax the situation in the future,” says Wilhelm Bauer, predicting future improvements. “When, for example, partially automated systems in assembly support this type of group work, so that not every station has to be continuously staff ed any longer.” The robot has to be working at the same pace as the human – not the human working at the robot’s pace.  

Rationalization through digitalization: Is there a risk in coming years of a battle for supremacy between humans and machines? Concern about losing your own job due to technical advances is not a new phenomenon. Since the dawn of the industrial age, occupations have repeatedly disappeared – and with them, at fi rst glance, jobs ceased to exist. But in many cases, completely new occupations – and therefore new fi elds of activity – have been created at the same time.  Wilhelm Bauer views future development as an opportunity: “We should not be so focus - ed on the question of how many jobs will be eliminated – or in what time frame. We should instead be concerning ourselves with how companies can in the future create interesting products and suffi  cient added value in order to generate new, inter - esting work.”  

The use of industrial robots does not at all automatically mean that jobs will be eliminated. On the contrary: A body shop of today’s scale would be unthinkable without robots. One example at the main plant in Ingolstadt shows that robots could also take on more tasks on the assembly line: There on the Audi A4 assembly line, a robot has been used for more than a year, working hand in hand with the people – without a safety barrier. “This is Adam,” says Audi employee Rainer Kölbl, intro ducing his onearmed colleague. With a suction cup, Adam fi shes an expansion tank for coolant out of a large box and hands it over, always at the right time and in the correct position. “This takes the strain off  my back and saves me a step in the process,” Kölbl says, listing the ergonomic advantages of the orange robot. He watches its fl owing movement as Adam’s arm disappears into the transport box again.  

Such human-robot cooperation opens up new possibilities for letting machines take over strenuous and ergonomically problematic tasks in the future. “Here, the robot has to be working at the same pace as the human – not the human working at the robot’s pace,” Karl Unger emphasizes. “If we keep this rule sacred, the expansion of human-robot collaboration will be readily accepted by the employees.”  

Digitalization brings with it a whole series of changes, including when a producing company is selecting a site. It’s no longer the place with the least costly workforce that scores bonus points as a production location, but instead it’s the country with the best industrial robots and the most skilled employees. With respect to the networked factory of the future, Wilhelm Bauer expects an increased need for training and development in coming years: “IT skills – and not necessarily the traditional programing tasks, but rather the intuitive  ability to handle systems – play a decisive role here. Digitalization is advancing quickly. It is important to develop employees – and ideally with the help of digital teaching aids.” This is already reality at Audi: Apprentices receive their course content on a tablet provided to them especially for that purpose. “This makes connected learning easier, even in the group,” says Jochen Haberland regarding the targeted use of technology. He risks a look into the future: “Traditional development programs in the form of classroom instruction will decline. We are developing in the direction of computer-assisted, self-guided study, which is supplemented through concrete applications in the group.” Jochen Haberland wants to continue promoting the model of life phase-oriented work organization, in part to create more scope for lifelong learning: “Continued education, part-time degree courses, parental leave, sabbaticals – these days, there are not many resumes that don’t feature at least one of these. As a company, we can respond to this with new models that consider the varying intensities of work phases, and reward them more consistently.” Within a career, the necessary time could be set aside not only for time off , but also for the various development opportunities.  

The desire for greater fl exibility in daily work routines and a more personalized course for one’s professional life requires a corporate culture based on mutual trust. The Audi leadership principles refl ect these values and focus on appreciation and respect. Much of what has been developed and proven successful over the years at the German sites in Ingolstadt and Neckarsulm is now being incorporated into international standards, such as in the building of the new Audi plant in Mexico. For instance, about 750 Mexicans spent several months  

Digitalization   
is advancing   
quickly.   
It is important to develop   
employees –   
and ideally with the help of   
digital teaching aids.  

Prof. Dr.-Ing. Wilhelm Bauer in Ingolstadt to interact with their German colleagues and develop the knowledge necessary for the start-up. Because responsible corporate conduct does not stop at national borders, Audi implements processes and organizational forms globally – while considering cultural diff erences at the international locations. The opportunity to acquire experience in another country is popular among employees – in 2015, a total of 1,406 expatriates worked at a foreign site.  

As the group tour through the Ingolstadt plant comes to a close, Wilhelm Bauer addresses a topic that aff ects all companies: “We are currently experiencing a change in leadership style. I expect that in many areas there will soon be no more weekly work schedules – and instead, employees in management positions will take over softer tasks such as facilitation and team-building.” Audi is also responding to the changing work environment with leaner hierarchies and more project work. “It is becoming increasingly important for project organization to be as agile as possible,” stresses Jochen Haberland. “In the future, it will be normal for groups of people to continuously be reshuffl  ing and restructuring within the company for projects.”  

The introduction of so-called product line management at Audi is also aimed in a similar direction, as a foundation of product line organization. With the introduction of  

# Continued education, parttime degree courses, parental leave, sabbaticals – these days, there are not many resumes that don’t feature at least one of these.  

Dr. Jochen Haberland  

the new system, a single manager will supervise a model family from A to Z, so to speak, and carry out the individual work steps in project form together with experts from the individual departments: from the fi rst letter of the specifi cations, through design and engineering, production and product improvement all the way to the end of the model cycle. The work assignments are therefore every bit as diverse as the product portfolio.  

  
Modern work environment: Prof. Dr.-Ing. Wilhelm Bauer, Dr. Jochen Haberland and Karl Unger (from right) conclude their tour in Technical Development building T02.  

# Flexibility  

# Part-time employees at AUDI AG  

1,287   
of a total of 28,067 employees   
in Production at AUDI AG   
1,815   
of a total of 28,907 offi  ce employees at AUDI AG  

Multi-space offi ce  

# Audi &the Fraunhofer Institute  

# Modern workplaces at Audi  

Together with the Fraunhofer Institute for Industrial Engineering (IAO), Audi has developed a visionary offi  ce and work concept for a new building at the Ingolstadt plant. The work environment will off er various work zones – from meeting rooms and seating areas for informal discussion to places where employees can retreat and concentrate on individual tasks.  

#  

# Telecommuting  

Germany is below the EU average and signifi cantly behind other economically powerful countries when it comes to the share of employees working from home. Scandinavia is the leader here.  

  

Employees in Germany   
who work from home   
Source: Brenke, Karl (2016): Heimarbeit – Home Offi  ce: Möglichkeiten werden bei weitem nicht ausgeschöpft. In: DIW Wochenbericht, No. 5, Berlin, p. 95–105  

# Work-life balance  

Employee leave times for AUDI AG in 2015  

616  

employees took a sabbatical lasting an average of 8 months.  

2,362  

employees took parental leave – $63\%$ of whom were men.  

# Generation Y  

What does Generation Y expect from employers? Source: Absolventa (2013): Die Generation Y und die Arbeitswelt, www.absolventa.de/karriereguide/ infografi ken/Infografi k-geny (as of: April 12, 2016).  

80 %Work-life balance Collegial environment, parental leave, company sport program 67 %Flexibility Telecommuting, fl exible working hours, sabbatical 19,947 employees of AUDI AG belong to Generation Y.  

# Training and development  

Leave of absence for training at AUDI AG in 2015  

335  

Number of employees who were granted leave for non-work-related training with a promise of reinstatement  

#  

» In the future of production work, the people will act more strongly as conductors and coordinators of the plant. Machines will take over the heavy muscle- work and even some of the thinking. « Prof. Dr.-Ing. Gunther Reinhart Head of the Institute for Machine Tools and Industrial Management (iwb) at the Technical University of Munich  

#  

# Audi & Co.  

Audi cooperates worldwide with more than 30 research establishments. The goal here is also to attract highly qualified young people to the Company. In 2015, more than 140 doctoral candidates pursued their doctorates in research projects funded by Audi.  

# Internationalization  

Experience is created through interaction  

1,406  

Number of Audi employees who were working as expatriates abroad in 2015  

Diversity enriches the work environment  

Employees from more than 100 countries work at AUDI AG  

> 100  

How important are   
international assignments   
to Generation Y?  

Source: Staufenbiel Institut GmbH (pub.) (2013): JobTrends Deutschland 2013 – Die Studie zu Entwicklungen am Arbeits markt für Absolventen. Berlin, p. 76  

  

# Key figures  

Audi uses key figures to make its sustainability activities measurable and present them in a transparent way. The following tables contain important key figures relating to our five CR core themes. The complete tables can be called up online at www.audi.com/cr-report.  

The figures for the years 2013 to 2015 apply to the calendar year and refer to the Audi Group. If key figures refer to individual Audi Group companies only, this is specified accordingly. Figures are rounded up or down, which may result in slight deviations from the totals stated.  

  

Product   

  

Environment [6]   

  

  

# Employees [13]  

Workforce, Audi Group Total 71,781 77,247 82,838   
· AUDI AG (excluding apprentices) Total 49,239 52,132 56,058   
· Apprentices Total 2,363 2,421 2,486   
Average age, Audi Group Years 40.4 40.4 40.3   
Age structure, AUDI AG   
< 30 years Percent 17.9 19.5 19.9   
30 to 50 years Percent 58.0 56.3 55.3   
> 50 years Percent 24.2 24.2 24.8   
Average length of service, AUDI AG Years 17.2 16.6 16.1   
Fluctuation rate Percent 0.4 0.5 0.5   
Proportion of women, AUDI AG Percent 14.1 14.2 14.8   
Proportion of women apprentices Percent 25.2 26.9 28.1   
· Industrial apprentices Percent 22.1 23.3 24.6   
· Clerical apprentices Percent 79.4 81.7 81.2   
Proportion of women in management Percent 8.0 8.3 8.9   
Other structural data, AUDI AG   
Proportion of academics [14] Percent 43.9 46.6 48.0   
Proportion of foreign nationals Percent 8.0 8.3 8.3   
Proportion of people with severe disabilities Percent 6.1 6.0 5.8   
Contracts to workshops for people with   
mental disabilities EUR million 6.5 6.6 6.8   
Frequency of accidents [15] –2.9 3.1 3.9   
Attendance rate [16] Percent 96.3 96.3 96.0   
Audi profit share per employee [17] EUR 6,900 6,540 5,420  

# Society  

Employee donations [18] EUR 1,074,000 1,160,000 1,226,000   
Expenditure on corporate citizenship [19] EUR –19,500,000 22,939,000  

# Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report  

# To AUDI AG, Ingolstadt  

We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement on the sustainability information marked with “ ” in the interim reporting of sustainability information (here­ after the “Interim Report”) of AUDI AG, Ingolstadt (hereafter the “Company”) for the business year from January 1st, to December 31st, 2015. [1]  

# Management’s Responsibility  

Company’s Management is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Interim Report in accordance with the relevant criteria regarding the scope of our review (complete­ ness, clarity, accuracy, timeliness, comparability and reliability), as set out in the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (hereafter the “relevant Criteria”) and for the selection of the information to be assessed.  

This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the Interim Report as well as the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustaina­ bility disclosures which are reasonable in the present circum­ stances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the Interim Report, which is free of mate­ rial misstatements due to intentional or unintentional errors.  

# Audit Firm’s Independence and Quality Control  

We have complied with the German professional provisions regarding independence as well as other ethical requirements.  

The audit firm applies the national legal requirements and professional standards – in particular the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors (“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buch­ prüfer“: $^{\prime\prime}{\sf B S}$ WP/vBP”) as well as the joint opinion of the Wirtschaftsprüferkammer (Chamber of German Public Auditors; WPK) and the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW): Requirements to quality control for audit firms (“Gemeinsamen Stellungnahme der WPK und des IDW: Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis”: $^{\prime\prime}\bar{\sf V}0\,1/2006^{\prime\prime})$ – and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and appli­ cable legal and regulatory requirements.  

# Practitioner’s Responsibility  

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the sustainabil­ ity information marked with $\mathcal{v}$ in the Interim Report based on our work performed.  

We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of ­Historical Financial Information” published by IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that the sustainability information marked with $\mathcal{C}^{\prime\prime}$ in the Interim Report has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the relevant Criteria.  

In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore significantly less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement. This includes the assessment of the risks of material mis­ statements of the sustainability information marked with “ ” in the Interim Report with regard to the relevant Criteria.  

Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the following procedures:  

•	 Inquiries of personnel at the corporate head office and at the production site in Ingolstadt in charge of the data ­collection and consolidation of sustainability information regarding the underlying internal control system and selected information in the Interim Report   
•	 Inspection of supplemental documents and supporting ­systems   
•	 Analytical procedures on selected sustainability information of the Interim Report   
•	 Comparison of selected sustainability information with ­corresponding data in the consolidated financial statements and in the group management report   
•	 Assessment of the presentation of selected sustainability information in the Interim Report regarding the sustaina­ bility performance   
•	 Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of ­information in the Interim Report concerning fleet emissions and fuel consumption as well as comparison of selected information on fleet emissions and fuel consumption with the official documents of the certification authorities  

# Conclusion  

Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the sustaina­ bility information marked with $\mathcal{C}$ in the Interim Report of the Company for the period from January 1st to December 31st, 2015 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the relevant Criteria.  

# Additional Notice – Interim Reporting  

Without qualifying our opinion, we draw attention to the fact that as pointed out by AUDI AG in the printed version of the Interim Report, the Interim Report does not represent a complete sustainability reporting in accordance with the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. The Interim Report is essentially the update of last year’s key performance indicators. Against the backdrop of the diesel emissions issue it would have been required for a complete sustainability reporting, as envisaged in the report­ ing year 2016, to adequately consider the diesel emissions issue on the basis of an updated materiality analysis.  

# Restriction on Use and Distribution  

We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with AUDI AG. The review has been performed for purposes of AUDI AG and is merely intended to inform AUDI AG about the results of the review. The report is not intended for any third parties to base any (financial) decision thereon. Our responsibility pertains solely towards AUDI AG. We do not assume any responsibility towards third parties.  

Frankfurt, April 15, 2016 PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft  

  

Michael Conrad ppa. Heinke Richter   
Wirtschaftsprüfer   
(German Public Auditor)   
None of us   
is as smart as   
all of us.   
Kenneth Blanchard  